---
layout: post
title:  "New Blog"
---

Starting up a new blog that will hopefully be used more than my previous one (currently located [here](https://ronshapiro.github.io)). My goal is to regularly post interesting thoughts and code snippets from work and personal projects. Though sharing open source repos on [github](https://github.com) is a great way to give back to the developer community, there can be a relatively-high (respectively) barrier to entry; sometimes just sharing a small piece of code can be of use to others. Aside from programming, I may decide to also post on other topics - how often I post will likely dictate the ratio.

For my first snippet, I want to share a neat tip that I found while browsing Facebook's new [Conceal](https://facebook.github.io/conceal) project. Often, it's ideal to initialize a data structure using a static initializer: 

{% highlight java %}
public class Initializer {
    private static final Set<String> sUsernames = 
        new HashSet<String>();
    static {
        sValidStrings.add("username-1");
        sValidStrings.add("username-2a");
        ...
    }
}
{% endhighlight %}

This is clear and idiomatic, but could definitely be cleaner. It depends on the name, so if you're developing without an IDE that can rename variables it could be a hassle, or simply it's more verbose than it needs to be. This is where [Double Brace Initialization](http://c2.com/cgi/wiki?DoubleBraceInitialization) comes in handy. You can rewrite that same variable like so:

{% highlight java %}
public class Initializer {
    private static final Set<String> sValidStrings =
        new HashSet<String>() {% raw %}{{ {% endraw %}
            add("username-1");
            add("username-2a");
            ...
        }};
}
{% endhighlight %}    

This is now clean and easy to read, not dependent on variable names, and constructs everything in one meta-statement. I can't wait to use it in my code, it looks like it will be amazing. To figure out how/why this work, [read more here](http://c2.com/cgi/wiki?DoubleBraceInitialization)

Note: this can be done anywhere a valid statement can be made. Consider this:

{% highlight java %}
public class FamilyActivity extends Activity {
    private SharedPreferences sp;
    ...

    @Override
    public void onCreate(Bundle savedInstanceState) {
        super.onCreate(savedInstanceState);
        List<User> family = new ArrayList<User>() {% raw %}{{ {% endraw %}
            add(new User(sp.getInt("mother")));
            add(new User(sp.getInt("father")));
            ...
        }};
    }
}
{% endhighlight %}

> digression/protip: I first encountered this while browsing [Conceal's code](https://github.com/facebook/conceal/blob/24a97da5aa8bd2ac497acfb878d16dbe8f669fa8/java/com/facebook/crypto/util/SystemNativeCryptoLibrary.java#L23-L26). Whenever you see a new open source library come out, I highly recommend trying to look through the code. You'll often learn a lot from the cleanliness and proper OO style (assuming it's a good library).